AT OLD WESTBURY
                           FACULTY SENATE MEETING

                          Friday, November 16, 2018
                           12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
                            Location Science 100

     *** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***

    Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
       https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive

                                   Minutes
Senators in Attendance: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice
Chair), Dana Tomlin (Secretary, Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University
Senator), Manya Mascareno (Senator at-Large), Priscila Ortega (SGA), Sara
Williamson(MMF), Lina Gillic (EE), Lisa Payton (AS), Jillian Nissen (BS),
Camille Jones, CP, Deepa Jani, (EN), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Veronkia Dolar
(PEL). Seojung Jung (PY), Christopher Hartman (PH), Royoko Yamamoto (SY),
Eric Hagan (VA), Fred Fleisher (VA), Patty Harris (LEC), Alireza Ebrahimi
(FRRC)

Senators Absent: Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Joseph Foy (Senator At-
Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Veslor (Senator At-
Large),Runi Mukherji (University Senator Alternate), Jon Kleinman
(Professional), Alonzo McCollum(Professional), Ana Martinez (professional),
Amna, Kamil (SGA), Taj Ford (SGA), Laura Anker (FY), Linval Frazer (AC),
Xavier Marechaux (AE), Blidi Stemn (CE), Jing Yi Song (HP),Christopher
Hobson (ARPT), Rose Muzio (CAP),Peter Ikeler (ARPC), Laura Limonic (ARPC),
Jillian Crocker (TLRC),

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Calvin Butts (President), Patrick
O’Sullivan (Provost), Barbara Hillery (Dean SAS)

Visitors: Michael Kavic, Cris Notaro, Ed Bever, Bonnie Eannone, Anthony
Barbera, Hedva, Al McCollum, Anissa Lynch, Fred Fleisher

Guests:

  0.  Meeting arrival and sign in 12:20 p.m.

  I.  Call to Order    12:30 p.m.

  II  Chair’s report
1.              Senate & Committee Vacancies: The Faculty Senate Chair
   fills committee vacancies that remain unfilled after the election. 
      o Ad Hoc Committee on Applied Learning: Two SAS Vacancies. Are you
        interested in Applied Learning?  Email the FS Chair if you wish to
        help shape our criteria and approval process for Applied Learning. 
2. RFC: SUNY “Consensual Relationship” Draft Policy:  The SUNY Board
   of Trustees has “directed each campus to implement, with input from
   appropriate members of the workplace and campus communities including
   local governance, a consensual relationship policy.”   A “DRAFT - SUNY
   Consensual Relationship Policy” containing the minimum requirements
   established by the Board of Trustees will be shared for consideration. 
   An email requesting comment will be sent to all Senators. 
   3. Laurie Morris. They want campuses to decide what the policy by March.
      They want campuses to decide what the policies should be. So the draft
      is just something to work with and get feedback.
      Should all faculty get the email? The consensus is yes
3. SPAAR Task Force Update:  The Task Force will meet for the second time
   on November 26, 2018. The Co-Chairs are Dr. Amanda Frisken & Mr. Michael
   Kinane. The Task Force is expected to complete its work by the beginning
   of the spring semester so that the work of the SPAAR Committee (SPAARC)
   can begin. 
III.    Approval of Minutes for November 2nd
     - Veronika Dolar was at the meeting
     - Changing Anthony Barbera’s name to the correct spelling
     - Top of page 5 add in, submitting CEPH report
     - Laurie Morris sent her documents electronically

  IV. Presidents’ Report
         ▪ Had a great meeting with new faculty. Provost provided brunch.
           Got to meet some of the new faculty to put faces to names
         ▪ Raised points, spoke highly and appreciatively about their
           mentors that helped them to get oriented to campus.
         ▪ Some issues were raised about formal or informal mentoring.
           Should it be implemented
         ▪ Issues of IT were also raised, Smart classroom technology
         ▪ Enthusiasm for teaching, encouraged them to become more deeply
           involved in faculty senate and committees; to help strengthen our
           campus to make it a better place for teaching and learning.
         ▪ “If there was anyone who railed against process it was me” he
           says. But he encourages faculty to get involved
         ▪ May not always be able to do what is suggested but if we can we
           will
         ▪ No two groups more important than faculty and students
         ▪ Promoting diversity but things we are doing a good job
         ▪ Middle States site visit spring of 2021 but work is underway
         ▪ Anthony Barbera:  3 co-chairs, himself, Jacob Heller and
           Margaret Terell, in the middle of next semester the plan to
           figure out how to carry out self-study, meet with faculty members
           and students, the cabinet, meet with college council once plan is
           approved. Finalize report in summer 2020. Some will be invited to
           join various groups.
         ▪ Whole point of middle states is for campus to continuously
           improve
         ▪ Faculty that is here and was here he feels that we have done
           very well and continue to get stronger on all levels.
         ▪ A lot of good, in order to continue we need the involvement of
           the faculty. From the building of NAB to faculty senate. All have
           been vocal and pressing on the vital issues. He is thankful for
           all we do.
         ▪ Not only Is there middle states but also our strategic plan.
         ▪ SPAAR Task Force: given the preview of its responsibility, wide
           range discussion. Varying continuum, all very collegial. Monday
           the 26th they meet to go over what was discussed. On target to
           finish work before spring semester starts
         ▪ Draft to consider and discuss. Mandy Frisken has been
           proactive. If the task force is what we are going by then we will
           be successful.
         ▪ Dr. Butts says PLEASE stay involved, stick with the senate.
           Look for opportunities to participate. Pressing things through is
           his wish. He respects process and sees how important it is.
         ▪ Helps to keep new members of the faculty informed and helps
           gained made to not be eroded
         ▪ Hopes everyone will have a great thanksgiving and hopes most
           people were not inconvenienced by storm
         ▪ Jennie: took 30 minutes to get to road from her building, why
           were classes not cancelled? People thought the rain would come
           earlier but the weather is not predictable at all… they knew
           there would be a storm but not that bad
         ▪ Are their blows that operate on our campus? Yes
         ▪ Ali Embrahimi- wants to know about quality of campus in
           general… how to make it better? Parking is better but not 100% we
           need some risk management. For emergency situations. On the issue
           of continuous improvement. Resolution about technology on campus.
           Not about personalities. We need the money to invest. Beg to put
           energy/money towards it. He hopes it will happen while president
           Butts is here.
         ▪ Talks about faculty lunch and center for learning but we lost
           it. Can we bring it back?
         ▪ Butts: addressing parking is not finished. He is pleased we
           could get the new parking lot up… he thought we had a faculty
           lounge. But learning that it has been lost.
         ▪ He brings back meeting with new faculty and the technology not
           working well. And he will be meeting with Evan because he says it
           makes no sense to have a “smart classroom” that is not smart
         ▪ Hoping that with new administration we will get new money. Gave
           1 million dollars for new TV studio. Carle Marselino sent aside
           several hundred for us. If we stay with our process and
           participate
         ▪ Strategic plan analysis assessment and review SPAAR
         ▪ If we stick with the process and implementation. With our
           participation we can improve
         ▪ Time flies. we have talked about upgrading, the conversation
           happened 15 years ago so now it is time to update
         ▪ He is encouraged by faculty that is here and new faculty that
           we will make great strides going forward
         ▪ He is here and reachable. Points to Dr. O’Sullivan as our
           fearless leader.
         ▪ Our top issue is our new science building. We need a new
           building, not an upgrade to the current one but a brand new one
           to help us to grow
         ▪ Write to assembly people.
         ▪ Just in case we had something that was tantamount, the hate
           speech. A student built something that was destroyed. He has to
           make sure that he is sensitive to his speech. We cannot count on
           anything we hear or see. Whatever it is. Let the administration
           know. We cannot let anything go. We must deal with everything; it
           cannot be tolerated. We are in a fragile time.
         ▪ We have been blessed but we have to be careful. Wherever you
           hear it or see it, our foundation is social justice but we argue
           for the rights of all human beings. Everyone has a right to
           articulate their point of view on this campus. No violence, no
           drugs, no alcohol. We have to protect our community
         ▪ Use the library! Tell your students to use it.
         ▪
  V.  Provost Report
         ▪ Ali Ebrahimi: sometimes we give a report and we do not see
           feedback. Technology and how we lack resources. He has a great
           respect for the provost, instead of giving handouts on how to
           teach.  With an issue that is raise, he wants to see a result.
         ▪ Dr. O’Sullivan says he has less money than last year but there
           is still the demand for it. He is aware of some of the problems
           that are occurring. He will meet with Evan Kabolokis next week.
           Always a matter of money. He sent out an article. If you read it,
           you will see what has happened to public education funding.
         ▪ We are getting a smaller percentage of the NYS operating budget
           than ins 2011, 2010 but the upside is we have more student so we
           can hire more faculty. Investing in faculty as much as we can
         ▪ The busses, 150k, these are items we do not talk about but he
           appreciates and should be more responsive
         ▪ Anthony Barbera: the library has classrooms that has state of
           the art technology, we find some of the technology is not
           compatible but the monitors and software are what are being put
           in other colleges. Given our budget we are told that what has
           been put in there is state of the art
         ▪ Chair: Evan responded has been looking at the rooms and IT
           governance is supposed to deal with technology requests for
           improvement and decide what requests get put to the front.
           Faculty through governance and Patty Harris and Yogesh. That’s
           the forum but we must make the most of it.
         ▪ Verokina Dolar- teaching COIL class, the issue is that one of
           the basic components are camera and mic, one of the biggest
           issues and challenges that we have. All the rooms are equipped
           with fancy equipment and do not have camera and mic. She thought
           there would be a conference center but Dr. O’Sullivan will check
           it out.
         ▪ Camera we do have does not capture the whole classroom. Some
           logistical issues for collaborative online learning that must be
           addressed
         ▪ Fred Fleisher: for one of the classroom F1-13 campus center,
           there is a bank of lights that do not work, the steps have been
           taken to request that it be fixed but it still does not work.
         ▪ Would be nice to get someone to the room when we need it, it
           would help if we can prioritize what is urgent.
         ▪ Provost will make sure to report back and see what he can do to
           expedite the process. There is an IT service desk. Eduardo
           Espinoza that looks at all incoming requests and prioritizes
           them. The system does exist.
         ▪ Provost says he is glad you are not willing to live with it and
           you wish to voice concerns.
         ▪ Another concern is, comfort and health issue of cold classrooms
           like the one we are in, Science 100. Students may choose not to
           come back to the College because of things like this.
         ▪ Answer: Sometimes we have so many new people, we are also
           pushing sustainability issues. We try not to spend money heating
           rooms that are not being used. This room is not normally used so
           not normally heated. Facilities should have been contacted.
         ▪ If you are not sure of who to contact is the department
           secretary.


  VI. Special Order of Business

     A. Election of At-Large Representative to the Executive Committee
         ▪ Usually done by Maureen Dolan
         ▪ Begin by asking for nominations for at large represented to EC
         ▪ Nominating Mike Kavic by Jennie D’Ambroise
         ▪ Any other nominations? Since there is only one nomination can
           we move by acclimation?
         ▪ All in favor, unanimously accepted

  VII.       Old Business

     A. LEC Report (Patty Harris)
         ▪ Here to answer questions
         ▪ Report has been sent
         ▪ Basically she is asking if anyone has any questions about it?
         ▪ Report was distributed by email and paper copy was distributed
           last time
         ▪ Motion to accept, was seconded. All accepted


     B. FRRC Annual Report (Alireza Ebrahimi)
         ▪ Here to answer questions with faculty rights and
           responsibilities faculty report
         ▪ One thing he wants to get back is that according to bylaws we
           are mandated to have a workshop every year. Fall is not a very
           good time. But he is encouraging questions
         ▪ On the future planning of the workshops, discussion on final
           grades.
         ▪ We are mandated to have submission of final grade in 48 hours.
           This has been troubling for people who teach more than 2 courses
           have 90 or so students. When you do calculations that is just not
           possible for a quality based final grade
         ▪ We have some solutions, not have batch system, let system run.
         ▪ Common hour move. Some issues that common hour is the middle of
           the day.
         ▪ Issue of the union, has some functions that have things that
           happen at 12pm. And they miss it. Union has to have 12pm meeting
           and not everyone can go there.
         ▪ 3rd issue mentioned is the faculty lounge. Sharing of ideas, to
           eat, positive. We are looking into that to find a space. We now
           have space for it.
         ▪ The faculty bylaws revision, looking into changes
         ▪ Faculty award committee. We cannot fulfill them because of the
           requirements for it.
         ▪ Any ideas for future planning for workshops
         ▪ One thing we want to do is, full faculty meeting providing
           lunch.
         ▪ Anthony Barbera page 4. There were no formal faculty
           grievances… for middle states it be noted that a quantitative
           number be included even if it’s none. Part of student complaint
           process. There is a federal regulatory compliance that students
           can complain about whatever they want. He wants to commend
           whoever wrote this that that’s great
         ▪ Not just about grievance on students but grievance on anything.
           Anyone can come to us and complain. But we are happy to do the
           job. We are not there to solve the problem but to mend it.
         ▪ Mitigate. Maybe we don’t have to do this paperwork if we can
           resolve it without those things. There are situations that we are
           mandated to try to resolve within us without paper. The grievance
           is mostly about a student complaining about grades.
         ▪ One student complained about plagiarism… could not do anything
           about it
         ▪ Anthony Barbera- issues with student grade appeals and now you
           have none? What has changed.
         ▪ Workshops last year were on syllabus, we are more on par with
           other schools and smaller classes where we have a better
           opportunity to know the students and what goes on. We hope it is
           not students not being aggressive but that out faculty is better.


         ▪ Let us make some kind of change, sounds like syllabus policy
           make it harder for students to complain because its clearer.
         ▪ Syllabi would be the kind of example. Whoever writes the report
           should note that for middle states to show that was the reason
           for the drastic change


  VIII.     New Business

     A. FLOW Program and Spring Financial Literacy Fair (Pat Lettini).
         ▪ Last meeting documents were distributed.
         ▪ Pamphlet given to first year group.
         ▪ All about finance, got good feedback. All about financial
           literacy program at Old Westbury.
         ▪ Committee made up of administrator’s faculty and staff. They
           meet once a month to put in place, some type of financial
           background in life.
         ▪ Started out by a grant by SUNY, if you wish to go into the
           website and take a look.
         ▪ Bunch of courses that you can take, like defensive driving that
           you can do at home
         ▪ In NYS we are one of the 17 states that do not require
           financial literacy in high school.
         ▪ Most do not take financial literacy course, for example, what
           to do with a loan or your paycheck.
         ▪ There is a program about how to do your FAFSA
         ▪ Some classes are a little advanced, e.g. mortgages
         ▪ We have been cited by SUNY as one of the leading programs in
           the system.
         ▪ We have had 1800 registrants, almost 8,000 courses have been
           completed and 3500 students who are active. We are going through
           our cycle of students. We are hoping that we are just giving just
           a little bit more
         ▪ Last year we put together a fair, looking for those interested
           in putting on presentations. What would our students be
           interested in?
         ▪ Exhibits were done by some insurance companies in a festival
           atmosphere. iPad giveaways, gift cards, separate room for
           retirement programs. Tax professional. Everything but credit card
           sign-up. First week in April. In line with financial literacy
           month
         ▪ Trying to get not only faculty involved. He sat on SGA, trying
           to reach out to clubs. Getting information from everyone one
           about what should be presented, there are 5 to 7 slots available/
         ▪ Financial aid staff will be there, specific questions about
           loans, exit interviews
         ▪ We did it last year, just about 525 staff, faculty and
           students. 20 presenters and vendors
         ▪ They are looking for a festive atmosphere. Trying to make it
           exciting.
         ▪ All we do is present it on the faculty senate level, reaching
           out to everyone who may be willing to help, he goes to
           departmental meetings, council meetings, they want students and
           classes to come.
         ▪ He thinks it was really worthwhile and there will be food!
         ▪ The handout given was from last year.
         ▪ He is the Associate Vice President, Business Affairs and
           Controller and Flow committee chair person
         ▪ Faculty member asked who is the person in charge of tables set
           up, the answer is Michael Dolan, staff member business and
           finance
         ▪ Vendors can come for free, cannot sign up for credit cards
           though

         B. Curriculum and academic planning committee (CAP)
         ▪ A proposal was brought that went to CAP, not going to talk
           about it but wishing to enter it into the record so that at the
           December 7th meeting it can be discussed and voted on. Goal is to
           be looked at, voted on and a discussion can begin on December
           7th. All faculty will be given access electronically. Asking
           senators to get feedback from respective departments to see how
           people feel about it so we can move it along.
         ▪ Concluded that the goal is to do this in time for advising in
           the spring.  Time is important.
           Anthony Barbera: two types of certificates. Two types SUNY and
           SED or campus certificate…can propose as amendment, solution
           would be to delete AND certificates. Leave it as minors.
           Motion to accept into record… seconded… done
     C. SUNY Old Westbury response to white paper


         ▪ Patty Harris: response to a white paper that came down from
           SUNY
         ▪ Task force for general education, they asked all campuses to
           respond. Response is due quickly.
         ▪ To our surprise, before any of us read it we expected the
           worst, that SUNY has a habit of changing things once you have
           gotten things together and pushing due dates up, never the less:
         ▪ In regards to our program meets requirements. We are on top of
           all the comprehensive colleges. Like Geneseo and New Paltz. We
           are leadership by going above and beyond the minimum to include
           diversity and having approved the institutional outcomes of
           LEEP. FYE call program. This is affirmative report from our
           point of view. Gives us a map to go forward in terms of gen ed
           program and its assessment. For those of you don’t know she is
           the director of academic assessment (Does anyone know who was
           speaking with Patty Harris?)
         ▪ there was a movement to restrict the number of domains. we
           resisted that.  Now we are covering more of these areas that
           middle states wants to be assessed.
         ▪ Liberal Education Committee, true collaborative effort between
           the committee members, the chairs, a lot worked on it over a
           period of time.  There have been changes in the bylaws which
           make for a better functioning committee. The Liberal Education
           Committee has now changed from being a dumping ground for
           faculty to have something to add to their service, to a
           wonderfully substantive committee. A great accomplishment! A
           number of faculty who have worked on it, great continuity to see
           how issues were resolved.
         ▪ The way the committee is working so well, the communication
           being so great is a direct result of how the people work so well
           together. A process of building.
         ▪ The document created was a reaction from another document.
         ▪ Senators have it? Share it with everyone. If you think your
           faculty is motivated.
         ▪ Since they did delay it, some formal approval or recognition
           of the response. It has not been sent up to SUNY yet.
         ▪ The provost funded an institutional review of the general
           education.
         ▪ Administration has been supportive but in 2014 as we went
           through the last reform, instead of covering all domains, cover
           few but many resisted.
         ▪ Now we meet Middle States requirements.
         ▪ We were under pressure to have the transferability from Nassau
           and Suffolk to our College.
         ▪ Our program remains in-tact. But Nassau Community College did
           not get reaccredited by Middle States.
         ▪ We have found other ways to make our impact deeper and
           broader.
         ▪ One of the issues of transfer students coming in, we did a lot
           of double dipping, approving courses in more than one domain.
           One category of diversity. Somewhat unique, diversity courses
           however, we have many.
         ▪ The wisdom of many faculty in approving and then this SUNY
           paper comes along and how they have better programs; we can
           congratulate ourselves
         ▪ Motion to approve the response to accept the response? Yes,
           motion accepted



 IX.      Sharing of Concerns
           ▪ Royoko Yamamoto in sociology states:
           ▪ BLUE from academic affairs. Everyone in her department has
             raised some concern.
           ▪ Low response rate in BLUE system, some classes, only three
             people have responded.
           ▪ The students who respond are the ones who feel strongly
             either way will respond. So how to engage others and encourage
             responses?
           ▪ Students ask, is the survey voluntary? If we give time during
             the class, you may get more to do it.
           ▪ Regardless of the format it is encouraged that we do, do it
             in class whether it is on paper or electronic.
           ▪ We need to be clear about how this will go procedurally
           ▪ Lead time, necessary. Duncan Quarless said the evaluation
             will open up 2 weeks before finals week.
           ▪ If you want to give time during class, factor it in. They had
             a conference call on Blue this morning, there still
             implementing it and the nuts and bolts are still being worked
             out.
           ▪ In hearing Duncan to describe blue, he was saying that
             evaluations would be available to students so that they can
             pick classes.
           ▪ Royoko Yamamoto: I don’t know about the timing of it but it
             might be a rate my professor, institutional version. Students
             can see but faculty cannot look at other faculty.
           ▪ In some institutions students are barred from accessing
             grades if they do not fill out an evaluation.
           ▪ Still unclear as to what is concerned and what is not. It is
             not a requirement here. You will be able to see your grades
             even if you do not complete an evaluation.
           ▪ Ed Bever: Public schools that’s not legal, we cannot block
             their access.
           ▪ With online systems it is complicated to achieve the ability
             to see the rating of faculty. When they were in a paper
             process, you could see them in the library.
           ▪ We have spent a while thinking about increasing response
             rate. Incentives to fill them out? Possibly.
           ▪ Concerns with low response rate to class evaluations
           ▪ Improve instructions
           ▪ Improve timing of release of instructions
           ▪ Concern of students being able to access these online
           ▪ We are aware of when the students have access
           ▪ Faculty involvement on this feedback process of Blue. But
             maybe not on the implementation. Maybe bring Duncan back?
           ▪ is the body that picked Blue still functioning? In the end
             that committee became Duncan.
           ▪ Faculty member- campus became very unsafe yesterday during
             storm, she got into an accident last year due to lack of
             paving… response time for inclement weather is too slow on this
             campus. Making sure we are safe on campus needs to be
             addressed.
           ▪ Main entrance had been closed. The closing of that entrance
             caused him to have to reroute. Its serious problem. Would be
             plowed better than other entrances.
           ▪ They closed gate A, on shuttle, allowed driver to go in. took
             2 hours to get to railroad station.
           ▪ Configuration of the road makes it difficult. The governor
             was prepared for 1 to 2 inches and that’s who makes the
             decision. Unexpectedly bad
           ▪ Event handling: requesting admin to come out with committee
             for cases like these. We need to come out with a committee so
             that.
           ▪ Lisa Payton doesn’t want yesterday to happen again.
 X.   Announcements
     D. Accept FRRC Report, Report was accepted
XI.      Adjournment