SUNY OLD WESTBURY
    STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK EXPANDED INVESTMENT AND PERFORMANCE FUND
                Request to fund Creation of a Digital Campus






SUNY Old Westbury aspires to create a Digital Campus employing state-of-the
art technology to construct digital curricula, transform teaching and
learning approaches, and automate the campus’ business processes. The
Digital Campus will bridge the digital divide between traditional teaching
and learning models and the technological learning expectations of
Millennials and future generations. This project will allow us to enrich
student engagement and success, and enhance our core curricula with
applied, interactive, collaborative teaching models. In addition, the
Digital Campus will improve the efficiency of our business processes and
reduce paper and environmental costs. Successful implementation of our
Digital Campus should empower our students to timely complete their
degrees, halt and lower attrition rates and improve the retention of our
sophomores and juniors. Such actions will contribute to the 150,000 degrees
awarded goal of SUNY.



The Digital Campus will enable Old Westbury to expand its collaboration
with Open SUNY for faculty workshops and faculty and student online
training and support. All degree-bearing courses offered at Old Westbury
can be web-enhanced permitting faculty and students to interact beyond the
physical limitations of the classroom. Digitization of course material such
as syllabi, notes, presentations, books, and texts will support usage of
Blackboard or the College’s ePortal.  Digital learning opportunities
(online, hybrid and web enhanced courses) and expanding online course
offerings to online degree programs will greatly assist students in
completing degrees on time.  The creation of online remedial courses in
Math, Physics, and Biology (which is in development via collaboration with
Stony Brook) also enhances and supports the NY-SUNY 2020 program.



As part of our Digital Campus, faculty development, course content and
instructional practices can be improved by developing Active Learning
Spaces – Innovation Centers, Creativity Centers, Multi-Media enhanced
Centers, and non-traditional classrooms where students and faculty can
create a business venture, develop applications, design an art project, and
engage in cross-disciplinary discussions. These learning outcomes use
technology but are not tethered or defined by it. Instructional design and
support for faculty will be provided to create course templates and digital
objects that are consistent, relevant and support the learning outcomes of
the department. As the Digital Campus matures we plan to establish learning
communities and an Innovation Center with a STEM building that will be
comprised of a Graphics Studio, Cybersecurity Control Center, Smart Energy
Lab, 3-D Visualization and Printing Center, and a computing area where
faculty and students can push the boundaries of digital learning.



The Digital Campus will include a blend of digital educational ecosystems
from Apple, Microsoft, Google and others. The Apple ecosystem has the right
blend of educational applications, content and devices (iPad, the iPhone
and iTunes U). Preliminary discussions center on incorporating the iPad as
a key component of the Digital Campus with a goal of providing an iPad to
every student and faculty. Providing an iPad to all students is an example
of applied Social Justice, providing equal access to digital content and
educational assets to our diverse student population and potentially
reducing the cost of academic texts by 50% through the use of e-books. The
use of the iPad is also expected to aid in recruiting and retention.



Additional benefits of the Digital Campus will be the reengineering of the
College’s administrative processes to create a cohesive and comprehensive
process for all facets enrollment, registration, payment, advising, campus
life, advancement and more.  Automating the transactional processes will
promote self-service and reserve staff for higher value activities.
Students will be able to transact their business online via the ePortal in
an efficient, proficient, and cost-effective manner. The electronic
workflow in the ePortal streamlines paper-laden process via electronic
forms, digital signatures, automatic routing and mobile technology.



Other components of the Digital Campus will include:

    • Deployment of DegreeWorks. This accessible and efficient advisement
      tool will provide students and advisors an organized degree plan
      evaluation. Funding is being sought to assist with the scribing
      process to translate course catalogs and requirements into
      DegreeWorks.
    • Record Imaging. A Scanning module is in place as part of shared
      services engagement with Farmingdale.  Indexing and OCR
      functionalities are needed to allow enrollment staff to evaluate
      prospective students efficiently, offering earlier decisions for
      prospective students with a potential positive impact on admissions
      yield.
    • Digitizing Student Records. The conversion to electronic records of
      documents such as applications, petitions, requests for financial aid,
      bills, book vouchers, etc., would improve performance relative to
      indexing, cataloguing, use and archiving of said records
    • Expanding Business Analytics/Intelligence. Using grant funding, the
      College is implementing Student Retention Performance software from
      Ellucian. The predictive and prescriptive analytics made available via
      this effort will enable the College to identify programs that have a
      greater percentage of success and lowest risk factor.
    • Improving Digital Strategic Infrastructure. The campus’ Wireless
      Network infrastructure must be enhanced and expanded to support
      Residence Halls, athletic field, common and outdoor areas. Traditional
      classrooms must be enhanced with multi-media to enrich the student
      learning experience; IP Video and IP TV will be provided for
      educational purposes.


The Digital Campus also aligns with the SUNY strategic plan and will help
the University achieve its Completion Agenda and the Power of SUNY/SUNY
Excels goals as they relate to the areas of Access, Completion and Success.
Specifically:

    • Access: Old Westbury continues to successfully serve the educational
      needs of a diverse student population. The digitization of processes,
      the provision of iPads to all students, and increased online course
      and program offerings will amplify the commitment to the campus’
      mission and vision of social justice and global citizenship.
    • Completion: The Digital Campus can improve retention rates and
      graduation rates. Goals related to DegreeWorks, Mobile Academic
      Advising, Student Records and online teaching align our academic
      degrees with the educational needs of our student population.
    • Success: The entire Digital Campus is focused on and driven by
      student success. The Digital Campus would be an applied learning
      experience incorporating digital curricula, the iPad and other
      technology designed to prepare students to meet the pressing demands
      of the workplace. This applied, interactive, transformative learning
      will better prepare students for gainful employment with competitive
      earnings. In addition, Old Westbury, as a registered Apple iOS
      Developer University and member of both Cisco Networking Academy and
      Microsoft IT Academy, will have the ability to confer industry
      recognized certifications in Networking, Cybersecurity, Web
      development or App development to students.


The Digital Campus is a carefully chosen blend of new educational
technology and equipment, and renovations of teaching/classroom space and
existing programs. A multi-phased approach will be used to implement this
project. Consultants will assist with business process re-engineering,
document and record management, ePortal configurations and solutions and
workflow improvements. Eventually, all of these processes, digital
artifacts and curricula will be insourced and managed by the campus.  The
targeted completion of the first phase is 2020.



The estimated cost of the Digital Campus project is $20.7M. Funding is
requested from the following sources:



|Funding Source                           |Purpose              |Request|
|$18.0M Investment and Performance Fund   |Project iPad         |$ 4.2 M|
|$55.0M NY-SUNY 2020 Challenge Grant      |Infrastructure       |$ 13.4M|
|Program Round V                          |Improvements         |       |
|$ 4.4M  Educational Opportunity Program  |Digital Curriculum,  |$ 1.1M |
|(EOP)                                    |iPad                 |       |
|$ 4.1M  Open SUNY Loans                  |Online Degrees and   |$ 1.0M |
|                                         |Program              |       |
|              SUNY Old Westbury Matching |Equipment & Training,|$ 1.0M |
|Funds                                    |Etc.                 |       |
|                                         |Total Estimated Cost |$20.7M |