Resolution requesting that the University Faculty Senate and the United
University Professionals (UUP) lobby for the evolution of Family Medical
Leave in the 2016 UUP Contract Negotiations

Whereas it is understood that healthy work-life balance and attention to
family life create healthy and productive work environments and allows
employers to retain employees in which they have already invested; and

Whereas most employees within the State University of New York (SUNY) will
experience a need for Family Medical Leave at some point in their careers;
and

Whereas the inability to balance short-term family needs with the demands
of the workplace can lead to unnecessary resignations, poor work
performance and negative impacts on the health and wellness of the
employee; and

Whereas SUNY does not have a policy of paid Family Medical Leave (FML) and
therefore retaining salary during FML requires the use of accrued sick
and/or vacation leave; and

Whereas academic faculty have no leave time accruals beyond sick leave and
may therefore not have sufficient paid leave to use for FML; and

Whereas some private companies have found that it is cost effective to
adopt policies that allow for liberal paid leave for their working mothers
and fathers and that such measures promote retention of working parents[1];
and

Whereas the current United University Professions (UUP) contract[2]
requires that academics and professional staff who want to extend the
timeline for the continuing appointment decisions for Family Medical Leaves
must either (a) take leave without pay, (b) choose part-time service
(losing some percentage of their salary) or (c) step out of rank and take a
qualified academic rank; and

Whereas, the adoption of clear and open policies for FML for faculty and
professionals at SUNY could provide a model for how FML could be
implemented to benefit other state employees; therefore

Be it resolved that the Faculty of the College of Old Westbury requests
that the SUNY administration, working with University Faculty Senate (UFS)
and the UUP address the implementation of FML in a system-wide and uniform
way and take a leadership role to lobby the Governor of New York State to
offer paid Family Medical Leaves to promote retention of valuable employees
and increases employee morale, while addressing issues of equity; and

Be it further resolved that the Faculty of ESF requests that the UFS and
UUP and SUNY Board of Trustees work together to eliminate the requirements
in the current UUP contract[3] and Board of Trustees Policies and
Procedures for extensions of the timeline for continuing appointment and
adopt a “stop the tenure clock” policy for FML that does not compromise our
employees professionally (stepping out of rank) or financially (reduced pay
or becoming part time);

Finally be it resolved that the Faculty of ESF request that appropriate FML
policies and their implementation should be a high priority in the next
round of UUP contract negotiations.
-----------------------
[1].  “Paid Maternity Leave is Good for Business”, The Wall Street Journal,
December 16, 2014.  Last accessed at http://www.wsj.com/articles/susan-
wojcicki-paid-maternity-leave-is-good-for-business-1418773756 on April 24,
2015.
2.  Article 23.7.a.  Leaves of absence without salary may also be granted
      under appropriate circumstances for the purpose of child care.
[2]. Appendix A-42. Family Leave – Professional Services Negotiating Unit