FOR DECEMBER 4, 2015

Resolutions in Support of the University Faculty Senate Resolutions of Fall
2015

FAMILY LEAVE SUPPORT RESOLUTION

Whereas, during the Spring of 2015 Old Westbury College Faculty Senate
supported the decision of the University Faculty Senate to develop a
resolution in support of a
rational and just family leave policy to be applied equally across the
University System, which was intended to meet the needs of its faculty and
professional staff as defined by United University Professional membership
for diverse family leave situations; and

whereas, during the Fall 2015 semester such a resolution outlining a
rational policy was unanimously passed in the affirmative by the University
Faculty Senate; and

whereas this resolution is intended to apply across all campuses and units
of the University , in equal  benefit to the membership;

Therefore Be It Resolved:

The Faculty Senate of the State University of New York Comprehensive
College has considered the University Faculty Resolution on Family Leave of
2015; and

Further Resolved, that this resolution and vote be sent immediately to
Peter Knuepfer, President of the University Faculty Senate of the State
University of New York.

Submitted November 24th, 2015 Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate




















FOR DECEMBER 4, 2015

ACADEMIC FREEDOM

Whereas, academic freedom is a fundamental tenant of the Academy; and

whereas, the University Faculty Senate has directed a resolution in support
of academic freedom; and

whereas, such resolution has been unanimously supported by unanimous vote
of that body;

Therefore Be It Resolved:

 The faculty Senate of the State University of New York College at Old
Westbury has considered this resolution on Academic Freedom of Fall 2015;
and

Further resolved, that this resolution and vote be sent immediately to
Peter Kneupfer, President of the University Faculty Senate of the State
University of New York.

Submitted November 24th, 2015 Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate