Resolution Requesting Modification of Family Medical Leave Policy

Whereas it is understood that healthy work‐life balance and attention to
family life create healthy and productive work environments and allow
employers to retain employees in which they have already invested; and

Whereas employers in states that have adopted Family Medical Leave (FML)
policies have found social and economic benefits for employees and
employers following the implementation of paid family leave policies1; and

Whereas university systems that have adopted family friendly policies
report gaining a competitive advantage for recruiting and retaining
exceptional employees2; and

Whereas the ability to balance short term family needs with the demands of
the workplace is important for maintaining employees’ good work performance
and the health and wellness of employees; and

Whereas many employees within the State University of New York will
experience a need for FML at some point in their careers; and

Whereas campuses across the SUNY system have inconsistent policies and
procedures surrounding the implementation of FML and there is no singular
direction from the State University of New York, nor the State and Federal
Governments; and

Whereas SUNY does not have a policy of paid FML and therefore retaining
salary during FML requires the use of accrued sick and/or vacation leave;
and

Whereas The Policies of the Board of Trustees (Title F, §1b) state that a
“leave of absence without salary may also be granted under appropriate
circumstance, for the purpose of child care”, and

Whereas the current New York State (NYS)‐United University Professions
(UUP) contract3 requires that academic and professional staff who want to
extend the timeline for the continuing appointment decisions for FML must
either (a) take leave without pay, (b) choose part‐time service (losing
some percentage of their salary) or (c) step out of rank or title and take
a qualified academic rank or a qualified professional title (sometimes
called “stop the tenure clock”); and

Whereas the need for FML does not always occur in convenient alignment with
the academic calendar and presents difficulties for irregular start and end
dates for FML, requiring flexibility with respect to employee workload; and

Whereas academic‐year faculty have no leave time accruals beyond sick leave
and may therefore not have sufficient paid leave to use for FML; and

Whereas at least nine faculty senate bodies in the SUNY system endorsed a
resolution supporting FML in April or May of 2015; and,

Whereas, the adoption of clear and open policies for FML for faculty and
professionals at SUNY could provide a model for how FMLA could be
implemented to benefit other state employees; therefore

Be it resolved that the University Faculty Senate (UFS) requests that SUNY
System Administration, in the next round of contract negotiations, work
with union representatives to address the implementation of FML in a system
wide and uniform way and to advocate for paid FML that promotes retention
of valuable employees and increases employee morale while addressing issues
of equity. Specific items might include, but are not limited to
A. changing the language in the current NYS‐UUP Contract4/SUNY Board of
Trustees Policies to eliminate the requirements for extensions of the
timeline for continuing appointment and adopt a “stop the tenure clock”
policy for FML that does not compromise our employees professionally by
requiring them to step out of rank or financially by forcing them to accept
reduced pay or part‐time assignments; and
B. amending the BOT Policies on “Title F Other Leaves” to remove language
that presents childcare leaves as unpaid leaves, in keeping with the intent
of FML; and

Be it further resolved that UFS senators and Campus Governance Leaders are
urged to advocate for support of this resolution on their campuses in order
to express to SUNY, UUP, and the State of New York’s Chief Executive that
appropriate FML policies and their implementation are important to a broad
number of campuses and should be of high priority in the next round of NYS-
UUP contract negotiations.

171‐02‐1
Passed