APC’s proposed amendments to handbook language:

Criteria for Academic Probation, Suspension, Dismissal

Academic Probation applies automatically to students who fail for the first
time to meet minimum GPA requirements in a given semester. The student is
placed on probation for the subsequent semester and will be unable to
register for the following semester until he or she has sought academic
advising. The student must achieve a semester and cumulative GPA of at
least 2.00 in order to be removed from probation. A student on probation is
ineligible to participate on College committees or in intercollegiate
athletics. Academic probation, including any accompanying constraints upon
a student’s activities, is intended as a support measure designed to
encourage students to focus on their studies in order that they may satisfy
academic standards.

Academic Suspension applies only to students who have attempted a minimum
of 32 credits. Students are automatically suspended from the College if
already on probation and they fail to meet the minimum semester and or
cumulative GPA requirements. The suspended student may not re-register
until one semester has elapsed.

Academic Dismissal applies automatically to those students who were
previously suspended, have returned, and again fail to meet the minimum
semester and cumulative GPA requirements. These students may not apply for
reinstatement until two semesters have elapsed from the semester of their
last registration at the College.

It should be noted that individual degree programs may require a higher GPA
for courses in the major (see the sections on each academic program
included in the catalog). Students should consult with their advisors
regarding specific program requirements.