EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE FACULTY SENATE
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COMPREHENSIVE COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

March 6, 2015

FS Resolution 2014-2015 (03)


Governor Andrew Cuomo’s 2015 Budget Proposal Public Higher Education

Whereas, in 1965 then Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller designed the expansion
of the State University system with the intended goal of offering a low
cost, highly competitive education to the residents of New York State to
improve access and insure affordability; and

Whereas, the State University of New York 2020 Strategic Plan has selected
increasing and supporting a diverse student and staff population across its
campus units; and

Whereas, such diversity includes insuring access to students all along the
educational pipeline and from New York State’s many and varied communities;
and

Whereas, the Governor’s current budget proposal includes a decrease in the
Economic Opportunity Program (EOP), Advanced Technology Training and
Information Networking (ATTAIN)Child Care, and the Graduation Achievement
program totaling approximately $5.3M  and imposing a reduction of $300,000
to Cornell Cooperative Extension Programs across NY State; and

Whereas, the Governor’s budget includes a reduction of $18.7M from a total
of 87.8M (21%) of from 2014-2015 operational funding to SUNY’s hospitals
which both serve diverse populations and train medical professionals across
a broad spectrum of professional candidates in order to support diversity
in access to services and professional development; and

Whereas, TAP allocations impose a “TAPTAX” across all of SUNY proportional
to each campuses function and size requiring all campuses to make up the
differences between what TAP allocates to each student and the total amount
of tuition per student to the amount of $800,000 to our campus in academic
year 2014-2015: and

Whereas, the NYS Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) for low income families
and students does not include any increased despite mandated Rational
Tuition increases for academic year 2015-2016, increasing the amount SUNY
and its individual campuses will be required to “payback” to the State; and
,
Whereas, New York State is the only state in the nation to favor private
colleges via the BUNDY Act by providing taxpayer funds via tuition
assistance to them and without the burden of a TAPTAX, thereby failing to
require private colleges to carry the differential costs of their tuition
by returning those amounts to NY State: and

Whereas, such a TAPTAX disfavors the operating budgets of its many campuses
and makes support of low income populations a risk and discourages
admission, rather than rewarding it as a benefit a practice which operates
in contradiction to the Governor’s stated intention to support the
educational needs of the most economically fragile to reduce poverty in NY
State and which operates in contraindication to the SUNY 2020 goal of
increasing diversity across the system: and

Whereas, the Governor has supported the passage of a NY State Dream Act
allowing undocumented immigrants to access TAP assistance for higher
education, but disfavoring their admission to SUNY campuses due to the
TAPTAX; and

Whereas,  the United University Professions negotiated a 2% salary increase
for the SUNY Faculty and Professional staff across SUNY for academic year
2014-2015 which does not reach the level of COLA and for which negotiations
over the length of this Governor’s term of office have not ever reached
COLA levels; and

Whereas, the Governor’s budget requires that this 2% raise must be carried
not by the State, which negotiated the raise, but, rather by each unit of
the State University which erodes the operating budgets of each unit,
disfavors smaller units of the system and campus units without large
research income in which the vast majority of the state’s students study;
and

Whereas, this Governor has sequestered salaries across SUNY to impose debt
reduction via punishment of his public employees; and

Whereas, the Governor’s budget reduces critical maintenance funds to
$200,00,000 across SUNY rather than providing the $600,000,000 requested in
the Chancellor’s request and resulting in a decrease for critical
maintenance funds on the SUNY Old Westbury campus from $9.5M in 2013-2014
to $ $7.5M in 2014-2015 and projected to be $2.7M for academic year 2015-
2016 thereby causing highly significant deferral of critical maintenance
across the campus; Whereas, TAP allocations impose a “TAPTAX” across all of
SUNY proportional to each campuses function and size requiring all campuses
to make up the differences between what TAP allocates to each student and
the total amount of tuition per student to the amount of $800,000 to our
campus in academic year 2014-2015: and

Whereas,  the Governor’s budget supports Performance Matrix or the Power of
SUNY with an allocation of $18M rather than the $50M as requested by the
SUNY Chancellor; and

Whereas, the budget includes only 30% of the funds required for capital
development across SUNY resulting in no new development across many member
campuses; and
Whereas, the governor has chosen to restrict state support to public
education while increasing public support for charter schools, increasing
their number from 400 to 500 across the state and fast tracking their
applications, funding this initiative to the level of $141M while cutting
significantly many programs that support access and support of low income
students in public education

Therefore Be it Resolved, that the Faculty Senate of the State University
of New York at Old Westbury urges the Governor and the members of the New
York Sate Legislature insure diversity quality and access across SUNY and
to SUNY College at Old Westbury in service to all residents of New York
State by:

Returning to University-wide and Categorical programs  $5.3M and to Cornell
Cooperative Extension  $300,000.

Returning to the State University hospitals  the $18.7M in operating
expenses removed by the Governor and by increasing funds from 2014-2015
levels appropriate to operating needs for 2015-2016;

Increasing TAP funds to each student attending a SUNY program to include
tuition increases, thereby stabilizing the TAPTAX and by including students
attending via the provisions of the Dream Act in TAP tuition increases;

To once and for all eliminate the unfair practice of providing state
taxpayer funds via the Bundy Act to private colleges and returning those
funds to the public educational trust which is the State University of New
York, thereby providing the taxpayer funds necessary to allow TAP to be
fully funded and to hold campuses harmless for meeting their diversity
obligations;

To hold to the contractual obligation to meet salary increases negotiated
between the Faculty and Professional Staff’s recognized bargaining unit by
covering for the 2% salary increases with NY State  taxpayer funds rather
than imposing a campus “salary tax: reducing academic budgets and vital
services to students;


To fully fund at $50M, the campus obligations of SUNY Excels Performance
Measurement or
delay its initiation until such time as full funding is appropriated;

To fully fund critical maintenance on all SUNY campuses and by so doing
making an ongoing investment in taxpayer owned resources and facilities,
which are, in fact available for pubic use;

To fund, as appropriate, capital development on campuses whose
programs/student populations serve the growth and development of the State
and SUNY;

Therefore Be It Resolved that this be sent to Andrew M. Cuomo, Governor,
State of New York, appropriate state legislators, Chancellor Nancy Zimpfer,
across SUNY campuses via the shared governance agents of all SUNY campus
units and sent to the President of the University Faculty Senate, the Chair
of the Faculty Council of Community Colleges, President of the SUNY Student
Assembly, President of the Old Westbury Student Government Association.





































EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE FACULTY SENATE
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COMPREHENSIVE COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBUY

March 6, 2015

 FS Resolution 2014-2015 (04)  SUNY Excels and Diversity in SUNY

Whereas, Governor Andrew Cuomo  in his introduction of his 2015-2016 New
York State budget request emphasized the need to provide more educational
access to low income and underserved populations; and

Whereas, SUNY 2020 includes the goal of supporting and increasing diversity
across the system; and

Whereas, the proposed initiation of a SUNY Excels matrix system whose goal
is to assess campus performance currently includes a penalty of 10% of new
budget funding to any campus which does not initiate a matrix measurement
plan on time or which plan is not approved by the SUNY Board of Trustees,
and

Whereas, performance improvement via SUNY Excels may require increased
funding for indices which campuses select for development and growth, and
to improve access to quality education to underserved populations;

Whereas, the Governor’s budget reduces the SUNY request from $50M to 18.M
to initiate SUNY Excels;

Therefore be it Resolved, that the first round of SUNY Excels matrix
planning be initiated with a held harmless clause to any and all campus
units attending to the Excels protocols in good faith;

and

Resolved, that performance improvement programs initiated by campus units
include appropriate funding and system support to insure best practice
outcomes including the increase in allocations from the Governor’s current
$18.M to the SUNY request for $50M;

and

Further Resolved, that matrix success measurements accommodate and reflect
the real conditions of financial and life circumstances of all SUNY
students, with special attention and support provided to those from low
income, low educational opportunity communities across the state and to the
unique programs and diverse missions of the campus units attendant to them.

Resolved to distribute to: