EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE FACULTY SENATE February 27, 2015
Draft edit 3/2/15

Resolution With Regard to Governor’s 2015 Budget Proposals

Whereas, in 1965 then Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller designed the expansion
of the State University system with the intended goal of offering a low
cost, highly competitive education to the residents of New York State to
improve access and insure affordability; and

Whereas, the State University of New York 2020 Strategic Plan has selected
increasing and supporting a diverse student and staff population across its
campus units; and

Whereas, such diversity includes insuring access to students all along the
educational pipeline and from New York State’s many and varied communities;
and

Whereas, the Governor’s current budget proposal includes a decrease in EOP
and STEM Funding to SUNY; and

Whereas, the Governor’s current budget proposal includes no earmarked
operational funding to SUNY’s hospitals which both serve diverse
populations and seek to train medical professionals across a broad spectrum
of professional candidates in order to support diversity in access to
services and professional development; and


Therefore Be it Resolved, that the Faculty Senate of the State University
of New York at Old Westbury urges the Governor and the members of the New
york Sate Legislature to support EOP and STEM at levels greater than 2014
thereby increasing access to higher educational attainment and generate
graduates who may serve high need communities,

Further Resolved, that University Hospitals with missions to serve the
broadest range of communities in their catchment areas and prepare medical
professionals from the broadest range of communities for service to the
broadest range of communities across the state, receive dedicated operating
funds at levels commensurate with their need to deliver their mission
obligations.

Additions? To distribute where?
























Executive Committee, Faculty Senate, State University of New York, College
at Old Westbury

February 27, 2015

Draft Edit 3/2/15

Resolution SUNY Excels and Diversity in SUNY

Whereas, the proposed initiation of a SUNY Excels matrix system whose goal
is to assess campus performance currently includes a penalty of 10% of new
budget funding to any campus which does not initiate a matrix measurement
plan on time or which plan is not approved by the SUNY Board of Trustees,
and

Whereas, performance improvement via SUNY Excels may require increased
funding for indices which campuses select for development and growth, and
to improve access to quality education to underserved populations;

Therefore Be it Resolved, that the first round of SUNY Excels matrix
planning be initiated with a held harmless clause to any and all campus
units attending to the Excels protocols in good faith; and

Further Resolved, that performance improvement programs initiated by campus
units include appropriate funding and system support to insure best
practice outcomes; and

Further Resolved, that matrix success measurements accommodate and reflect
the real conditions of financial and life circumstances of all students,
with special attention and support provided to those from low income, low
educational opportunity communities across the state and to the campus
units attendant to them.

To Be distributed , where?